HTTP UA Client Hint headers (#11191)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/http/headers/sec-ch-ua-arch/index.md

---
title: Sec-CH-UA-Arch
slug: Web/HTTP/Headers/Sec-CH-UA-Arch
tags:
  - Sec-CH-UA-Arch
  - Client hint
  - HTTP
  - HTTP Header
  - Reference
  - Request header
  - Exerimental
browser-compat: http.headers.Sec-CH-UA-Arch
---
{{HTTPSidebar}} {{SeeCompatTable}} {{securecontext_header}}

> The **`Sec-CH-UA-Arch`** [user agent client hint](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Client_hints#user-agent_client_hints) request header provides the user-agent's underlying CPU architecture, such as arm or x86.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`Sec-CH-UA-Arch`** [user agent client hint](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Client_hints#user-agent_client_hints) request header provides the user-agent's underlying CPU architecture, such as ARM or x86.
```

?

This might be used by a server, for example, to select and offer the correct binary format of an executable for a user to download.

<table class="properties">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Header type</th>
      <td>
        {{Glossary("Request header")}},
        {{Glossary("Client hints","Client hint")}}
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">{{Glossary("Forbidden header name")}}</th>
      <td>yes</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Syntax

```http
Sec-CH-UA-Arch: <arch>
```

### Directives

- `<arch>`
  - : A string indicating the underlying platform architecture, such as: `"x86"`, `"ARM"`.

## Examples

> A server requests the `Sec-CH-UA-Arch` header by including the {{HTTPHeader("Accept-CH")}} in a _response_ to some request from the client, using the name of the desired header as a token:

Reviewer: I don't think "response" needs to be italicized here, but a tiny point, and arguable.

(I expect this comment will apply to a few other pages here and won't repeat it there.)

Author: The only way a server can send this is in a response, since it doesn't make requests. I chose to use italics to highlight that it was a server message. But following the rule "a reviewer finds it annoying and perhaps it therefore is" :-)

```suggestion
A server requests the `Sec-CH-UA-Arch` header by including the {{HTTPHeader("Accept-CH")}} in a response to some request from the client, using the name of the desired header as a token:
```

```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Accept-CH: Sec-CH-UA-Arch
```

> The client may then opt-in to providing the hint, and add the `Sec-CH-UA-Arch` header to subsequent requests.

Reviewer: I think "opt-in to" is wrong here: if used as a verb it should be "opt into". But just:

```suggestion
The client may choose to provide the hint, and add the `Sec-CH-UA-Arch` header to subsequent requests.
```

...would be clearer IMO.

(I expect this comment will apply to a few other pages here and won't repeat it there.)

Author: Yeah, much better thanks. Will roll it out.

For example, on a Windows X86 based computer, the client might add the header as shown:

```http
GET /GET /my/page HTTP/1.1
Host: example.site

Sec-CH-UA: " Not A;Brand";v="99", "Chromium";v="96", "Google Chrome";v="96"
Sec-CH-UA-Mobile: ?0
Sec-CH-UA-Platform: "Windows"
Sec-CH-UA-Arch: "x86"
```

Note above that the [low entropy headers](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Client_hints#low_entropy_hints) are added to the request even though not specified in the server response.

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- {{Glossary("Client hints")}}
- [User-Agent Client Hints API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/User-Agent_Client_Hints_API)
- [Improving user privacy and developer experience with User-Agent Client Hints](https://web.dev/user-agent-client-hints/) (web.dev)
- {{HTTPHeader("Accept-CH")}}

> - [HTTP Caching > Varying responses](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Caching#varying_responses) and {{HTTPHeader("Vary")}}

Reviewer: It's unclear to me how this link is relevant, but maybe it is in some way I don't understand!

Author: @wbamberg See https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Client_hints#caching_and_client_hints

Basically any client hint potentially changes what resources are returned, so you "generally" want to also specify them in the `Vary` header to make sure that the different responses are cached ... unless they change too often in which case you might want to use some other link.

I agree that the original link is too "abstract". How about I replace this with https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Client_hints#caching_and_client_hints - or do you see that as unnecessary?

Reviewer: > @wbamberg See https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Client_hints#caching_and_client_hints
> 
> Basically any client hint potentially changes what resources are returned, so you "generally" want to also specify them in the `Vary` header to make sure that the different responses are cached ... unless they change too often in which case you might want to use some other link.
> 
> I agree that the original link is too "abstract". How about I replace this with https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Client_hints#caching_and_client_hints - or do you see that as unnecessary?

I think that's unnecessary since you're already linking to https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Client_hints. But I don't mind keeping the original `Vary` links in there if you want.
